[Applause]
hello everyone so I want to give you an
update to the dynamic data and
capabilities working group and it went
off for some reason back up so our focus
in the second quarter was he oddities we
made a lot of investment in the research
Inc see oddities we actually made two
requests for proposals and there are two
links there if you want to check it out
and propose a solution for the problems
that are there also we get a lot of
involvement with the research community
with some universities some research
centers as well and also we have
researched a lot of topics around
authentication and authorization as well
so in brief I will explain the current
type of C oddities and the problems they
have so first of all we have state
facilities which intentionally replicate
those states between replicas and
replicas exchange messages with all
state always the guaranty strong event
or Co CCC and they are reliably reliably
in the sense that the the network might
be flaky but still things work out well
the drawback of these is obviously when
the states is very large it doesn't
scale so there's another type of C
oddities which are operation based and
especially operations are exchanged
between replicas and they are very thin
usually because they just contained the
operation that mutates the state and
there was really smaller because of that
and take less bandwidth of course the
drawbacks is that you have to have the
entire entire set of operations to or
you must keep the entire set of
operations for new peers you have to
deliver the whole set of operations
always and that brings us to a slow boot
because new peer doesn't have anything
so you have to pass always the entire
set of operations in a single time we
are trying to solve that with compaction
and garbage collection but it's a very
real difficult
a difficult problem to solve and also
sum up some operations but must be
delivered only once so they must be they
are not really even content on some
implementations so we are exploring a
new type of C LEDs which we think we
will solve many of these problems which
is Delta C LEDs and essentially the
benefits is that replicas when they are
exchanging messages they just exchange
the difference between the states and
also the plates afterwards are based in
mutations which are kind of similar to
the operations on operation basically it
is and this is this gives us the best of
the both worlds in the sense that the
states passed between replicas is small
enough and the afterwards operations are
also small and so we have the best of
both worlds so we made an implementation
actual Pedro Teixeira made an
implementation of Delta Z our T's in
JavaScript is on that repo over there
and it was highly based on the work done
in this paper Delta states replicated
data types by Paul Sergio Almeida Valley
shocker and Carlos Vaquero I think that
I pronounced that correctly and these
new si oddities the facilities are being
used as a dependency of an upcoming
library on the pier star ecosystem which
is the pier star up library and also
besides si oddities this library aims to
have like an SDK for developers to build
applications on top of that and it will
solve things like I think i thinik ation
identification collaborations oversea
oddities among gondola foundations that
developers need also we have invested in
researching around Jason see a letís by
Gonzalo over there and we made some
research there's a link on the research
over there I found check it out
I'm going back with you because there's
a lot of stuff in here and the second
part of this talk is authentication how
can we like
reliably identify users in a
peer-to-peer application and now can we
prove ownership over over operations on
see our duties right this is a very
difficult topic but I think if we merge
three foundations which is the IDS brief
I will claims in the idea of we are able
to accomplish that and I will start by
explaining roughly what is the IDS the
IDS are essentially identifiers that
doesn't don't change our immutable and
persistent and they are formed by a
scheme a method and a method specific
identifier I will just go on very
quickly at the ID maps to resolve a DD
ID document that contains among other
things public keys so that you can
interact with the the the entities
behind like we define sign ensures and
including connections this is basically
the the motivation behind them I will
skip it for now but the the key note
here is that they are a perfect fit to
live in block chains right publicly
supported ledges and essentially on
block chains as well and then will be
file claims with our claims issues
essentially anything that you can attach
to an identity even the name your your
home address and things like that can be
a reliable claim and abilify claim
usually is sent from an identity to
another identity but also you can have a
subset in which the same identity can
state or made statements about
themselves like I can prove ownership of
my social accounts like Facebook or
Twitter by generating proof of that and
that only depends on me and because of
that we can in an application
centralized application we can do things
like this where we show user details pop
over with the brief occations
on the social networks made in real time
in a peer-to-peer compatible and
friendly way and the last topic is the
ID of which essentially is a ceremony
where a party proves to a relying party
that he owns and controls the D ID right
and
afterwards and optionally you can
disclose verifiable claims so that the
the relying party knows your name knows
your social networks and anything that
you want my one to disclose and so this
is all cool but is it was about today
can use them today and they are are they
accessible for regular Internet users
that's the question here I made a quick
quick analysis over all the DMV ID
methods present in the registry visas
are just the four most important ones
you might find additional information in
that link I will not elaborate on these
and all of these information is in RFC
identity and authentication RFC in the
pierre-pierre star repository and as
part of as part of that RFC we have made
a proposal called identity manager which
essentially is the wallet for your
identities user interface where it can
create and import multiple the IDs
support multiple IDs for your identities
which is useful because I have my own
identity but I can have one from portico
labs and so on and manage that in that's
why we can manage our claims and this
also process and so on and we can
authenticate to the centralized
applications and also it should be
intuitive and fluid for regular users
and because of the timing is a great
opportunity to become the de facto
identity wallet for the web and maybe
later on for the native applications as
well on our mobile phones and other
devices I have you some mock-ups but you
can see this the complete set of
mock-ups in the RFC as well so what's
next for the the group docking group we
are going to reshot projects such as you
port and block stack and explains the
problems explain the problems that we
are having and possibly work together to
find a solution for those problems we
need to make a plan to integrate the
anything about identity and
authentication on pier star up which is
a library I will be speaking tomorrow
and also we should resume and continue
the research on authorization and
premiere
GL's on top of these identity and
authentication as well and you may find
the slides here I have the full talk
slides because I think I thought this
talk was 30 minutes so I have to shake
it out but you can check the full slides
over there and that's all thank you
anyone what questions just that you
missed the more important IP ID work
that actually I didn't which is the the
ID spec using ipfs that actually plays
well with you port and in sovereign so
yeah I'll do a lightning talk tomorrow
on it
that'll be cool yeah I know I know that
that is actually really method
implemented over there but I think
because of the delays of apenas it's
kind of you news of all right now but we
can talk tomorrow or